IR Pong V1.0 by Till Harbaum (T.Harbaum@tu-bs.de)      7/1/99
-------------------------------------------------------------

IR Pong is a two player action game for the Palm Pilot. You'll 
need a palm with infrared capabilities and a second person with 
a similar machine to play this game.

Starting the game

Start the game on both machines, place the machines that the
infrared interfaces can 'see' each other and tap the 'connect ...'
button on one machine to start the game. The machine that
was used to start the game will be the 'master' machine which
is controlling the game.

It is your turn to prevent the ball from leaving the screen
to the bottom. The other player will try this at the opposite 
side of the screen. Once the ball leaves the screen on your
side, the score of the other player is increased. At the
top of the screen the score for the current match is displayed.
If there is no game in progress, the overall lost and won games
are displayed in the main window.

Stopping the game
You can stop the game in several ways: 

- Select 'disconnect' from the menu will stop the game and
  return to the start screen.

- Quiting the game on one machine will cause the game to stop
  on the other machine, too (that machine will complain about
  a lost connection).

- Interrupting the IR connection (by removing the machines)
  will cause the IR connection to fail and end the current 
  game.

The Setup

Use the setup menu to change the game settings. It is recommended
to stop a running game before going to the setup.

You may configure the game now using the 'setup' menu. There are
two kind of settings, local settings and global settings. Local
settings only affect the local machine and have no effect on the
opponent. Global settings are set by the master and are valid
for both machines. The setup allows you to:
  
- Switch sound on/off
- Select your paddle speed,
- Select the board layout to play on (random selects a new
  layout for each new match)
- Select the ball speed
- Select the speed increase of the ball.

If you like this game

Please go to a beach near to your home and collect some sand, put
it into a little bag and send it with a postcard/photo showing that 
beach to 

  Almut Behrens
  Marienstrasse 22a 
  38104 Braunschweig
  Germany

She's collecting sand from allover the world ...

Have fun
